# PagerDuty (Community)

@lb[](img/zenpack-pagerduty-zenpack.png)

## Community

This ZenPack is developed and supported by the Zenoss User Community.
[Contact Zenoss](https://tryit.zenoss.com/zenpack-contact/){.external-link} to
request more information regarding this or any other ZenPacks. [Click here](https://zenoss.com/product/zenpacks?f%5B0%5D=im_field_zenpack_category:1021){.external-link} to
view all available Zenoss Community ZenPacks.

### Authors:

Joseph Anderson

### Maintainers:

Joseph Anderson

### License:

GNU General Public License, Version 2, or later

### Name:

ZenPacks.community.PagerDuty

### More Information:

[GitHub page/HomePage](https://github.com/j053ph4/ZenPacks.community.PagerDuty){.external-link}

### Git Sources (For Cloning):

[Link](https://github.com/j053ph4/ZenPacks.community.PagerDuty.git){.external-link}

## PagerDuty ZenPack

Tight integration between Zenoss (www.zenoss.com) and Pagerduty
(www.pagerduty.com)

## Support

This ZenPack is developed by the Zenoss user community and supported via
our online forums. Zenoss, Inc. does not provide direct support for this
ZenPack.

## Releases

Version 1.0- [Download](https://storage.googleapis.com/zenpacks/ZenPacks.community.PagerDuty/1.0/ZenPacks.community.PagerDuty-1.0.egg){.external-link}:   **Summary of changes:** initial release:   Released on 2013/04/18:   Compatible with Zenoss Core 3.2.x, Zenoss Core 4.2.x

## Background

DESCRIPTION:

This ZenPack is designed to facilitate a tight integration between
Zenoss (www.zenoss.com) and Pagerduty (www.pagerduty.com). It provides
the following capabilities:

1\. A script designed to be run by Zenoss "Event Commands" (3.x) or
"Notifications" (4.x) that creates Pagerduty incidents for specific
Zenoss events. a. incident is created for Pagerduty service by
specifying the service key as a runtime argument. b. if Pagerduty
service is in maintenance, the Zenoss event will be acknowledged and
updated with a relevant message c. if Pagerduty service is disabled, the
Zenoss event will be left unacknowledged, but updated with a relevant
message 2. A Zenoss daemon that runs periodically and synchronizes
Zenoss event/Pagerduty incidents. The daemon: a. determines which side
(Zenoss or Pagerduty) was most recently updated. b. changes the status
of the non-authoritative event/incident to match the authoritative one
c. copies/formats Pagerduty incident logs for view within the Zenoss
event console details.

This ZenPack uses the web service APIs of both Zenoss and PagerDuty.

CREATING PAGERDUTY INCIDENTS:

Since Pagerduty uses a key to identify the "Services" that notifications
should be assigned to, the idea is to create a default service key event
attribute (via transform) that Zenoss will use when creating Pagerduty
Incidents. The default service key can then be overwritten by other
event transforms according to the administrator's needs.

For example, the following event transform might be applied at the root
of the event class hierarchy. This transform determines whether a given
device is a Windows or Unix device, and assigns the appropriate service
key accordingly:

------------------------------------------------------------------------

unixServiceKey = 'UNIXKEY' \# Unix Team windowsServiceKey = 'WINDOWSKEY'
\# Windows Team defaultServiceKey = 'DEFAULTKEY' \# Default Team try:
devClass = device.deviceClass().getOrganizerName() \# string
representing device class organizer if 'Linux' in devClass:
evt.pdServiceKey = unixServiceKey elif 'AIX' in devClass:
evt.pdServiceKey = unixServiceKey elif 'WMI' in devClass:
evt.pdServiceKey = windowsServiceKey elif 'Windows' in devClass:
evt.pdServiceKey = windowsServiceKey else: evt.pdServiceKey =
device.zPDServiceKey except: \# set to default if nothing found
evt.pdServiceKey = defaultServiceKey

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This initial transform can then be overridden later by other event
transforms depending on the event class (or whatever the administrator
designs). Once the event has a corresponsing service key assigned, it
can be passed as a parameter to an "Event Command" (Zenoss 3.x) or
"Notification" (Zenoss 4.x) such as:

python zenpagerduty.py -a create -z ${dev/zPDZenossServer} -u
${dev/zPDZenossUser} -p ${dev/zPDZenossPass} -H ${dev/zPDDomain} -T
${dev/zPDToken} -U ${dev/zPDUser} -e ${evt/evid} -S ${evt/pdServiceKey}

which creates the Pagerduty Incident with the provided arguments.

SYNCHRONIZING SERVICE:

This ZenPack provides a service daemon called "zenpdsync" which
periodically (default 60 seconds) pulls the last N ('eventsBuffer'
option default 20) events from both Zenoss and Pagerduty. It correlates
these into pairs and determines which was last updated. If the status of
one of the pair differs from the other, then the most recently updated
one's status is copied to the other. Relevant Pagerduty incident log
details are also copied to the Zenoss console.

ZPROPERTIES PROVIDED:

zPDZenossServer: hostname of zenoss server zPDZenossUser: zenoss user
allowed to query events zPDZenossPass: password for zenoss user
zPDDomain: YOURNAMEHERE.pagerduty.com zPDToken: Token key needed for API
calls zPDUser: Pagerduty user used for automatic updates (this will show
in the console, I use a fake user called "Zenoss") zPDServiceKey:
optional per-device service key (would need to be assigned in transform
if used, however)

COMPONENTS:

The ZenPack has the following objects:

An example notification (Zenoss 4.x) An example event command (Zenoss
3.x)

INSTALLATION:

It is recommended to run the "zenpdsync" from only one hub or collector,
since the process does not need to be run multiple times for a single
Zenoss installation. This means disabling the "zenpdsync" daemon on all
but one of the hub/collectors.

Be sure also to set defaults for the zProperties, as well as creating an
event transform under the root class similar to the sample above. The
bare minimum event transform would be:

try: evt.pdServiceKey = device.zPDServiceKey except: evt.pdServiceKey =
'YOURSERVICEKEY'

A transform has not been provided, as the author has encountered
complications in the past related to event classes (they get removed if
the Zenpack is uninstalled).

## Attachments:

-   [pagerduty-zenpack.png](img/zenpack-pagerduty-zenpack.png)
-   [pagerduty-zenpack.png](img/zenpack-pagerduty-zenpack.png)
-   [pagerduty-zenpack.png](img/zenpack-pagerduty-zenpack.png)

